Tesla Motors raised $226.1 million dollars in an initial public offering Tuesday, and its shares surged 41 percent as investors snapped up stock in a Silicon Valley company that, for all its buzz, has posted a profit just once.

Shares closed at $23.89 after opening at $17, an impressive gain given that the Nasdaq lost 3.85 percent and the Dow fell 2.65 percent.

Tesla, which is the first American automaker to go public since Ford in 1956, priced its shares above the initial price of $14 to $16. The company, listed on the Nasdaq as TSLA, boosted the number of shares by 2.2 million to 13.3 million late Monday because of high demand.

"It gives them some cash that they desperately need," John O'Dell, senior editor at Edmunds GreenCarAdvisor.com, told AFP. The company's initial public offering was a "bit of referendum on the future of the electric car."

Investors didn't mind that Tesla has yet to earn money. The company has posted a profit just once — in July 2009 — and lost $25.5 million during the first three months of this year. It lost $55.7 million last year, an improvement over 2008, when it lost $82.8 million. All told, Tesla has burned through more than $300 million since its founding in 2003.

"A lot of people were puzzled about why we were going public without profits," Musk told reporters outside the Nasdaq building in Times Square. "The reason we are not profitable today is because we are in the midst of expanding with the Model S."

The burn rate hasn't kept Tesla from lining up some big supporters. Daimler bought a sizable stake in the firm, and Toyota signed a sweetheart deal with Tesla just last month. Even Uncle Sam got in on the action: The Department of Energy lent the company $465 million to help build the Model S sedan, which Tesla keeps promising we'll see in 2012.

"Investors that are interested in Tesla know that it's going to continue to burn cash until it gets Model S into commercial production," Matt Therian, an analyst at IPO research firm Renaissance Capital, told CNNMoney.com. "Tesla investors are really looking out to 2012, with their investment very much tied to whether they think 20,000 is a conservative or an aggressive number."

Tesla made its name selling the $109,000 Roadster sports car, but its future depends on broadening its appeal with the Model S. The company plans to produce 20,000 Model S sedans annually. More than 2,200 people have placed deposits for the car, which will cost $49,500 after the $7,500 federal tax credit.

Musk, in an interview with CNBC, said "people need to appreciate that if we were just making the Roadster, we would be profitable as a company but we are in massive expansion mode. We are increasing our volume by 30 to 40 fold, so it is just impossible for a company to be profitable given that level of growth."

Tesla will build the Model S at the former New United Motor Manufacturing factory in Fremont, California, it bought from Toyota for $42 million.

Despite the big investments from Daimler and Toyota – which will buy $50 million worth of stock – Musk tells Bloomberg, "our goal is to remain independent." Being acquired by a bigger player isn't "out of the question," he says, but "it's just not something we're aiming for."

UPDATED 7:15 p.m. with Tesla's closing price and more from Musk and analysts.

*Photo: Tesla CEO Elon Musk responds to a reporter's question following the company's initial public offering Tuesday on Nasdaq.

Mark Lennihan/AP *